Hello again.
Delightful God.
People in this video we're going to set up our simple door.
There's going to unlock doors and locked doors.
And this one is going to an unlocked door.
Later on to make a locked door that's going inherit from the scene.
So this is going to be our basic template for a door.
Let's talk about how we want doors to behave in and.
I'm thinking that the player has to actually use a door.
It's not going be an automatic door like you get a at a supermarket for example yet close enough.
And it just opens.
You actually have to use it and to use it you're going to left click on the mouse.
Now we need to make sure that you're within range right.
So you have to have entered a clickable area otherwise you have to click on any door on the screen and
it will just open.
So we need some way of checking is the player within the clickable area.
Are you in range of the door.
Can you reach it which means we also need to track.
Have you left that area which is fine because we can do that with signals so we know the player is going
to be in range of the door.
But n.p. Cesar can open a door just by getting close.
The computer isn't going to click doors so the guards a guard walks up to a door the door will just
open.
We don't need to track if they in the area or not.
Finally our doors have to block light and our doors have to close automatically go.
I think too complicated here but worth bearing in mind.
So let's get to it.
First thing we do as you might expect we're going to open a scene so we can instance a door.
So let's make a new scene.
And I'm going to make an area to hoodie and call my area to dig door.
An area today.
Well that'll become clear in a moment.
But essentially it's because the parent of the door.
The bit that isn't going to move is going to be the area that the player has to enter in order to click.
It's going to be the bit that you're in range of.
So before we put in this collision shape let's put in a sub node for Sprite.
And on graphics tiles and the PLG rather not tiles then other tiles down the bottom.
We see tile 473 that's our door so that goes here.
That's our door.
OK.
This door part is going to have a static body and that's going to have a collision.
Now notice door still doesn't have a collision shapes as an area Judy you this doesn't work here.
But before we do that let's give our actual Sprite the actual wooden part of the door the bit the players
to think of the door.
Let's give that a new rectangle shape.
And just like every other time expense not scale.
So that looks pretty awesome.
Well one thing we do before we forget.
I'm going to give this light occlusions So let's give this occlusion light occluding hoodie and this
is a new occlude a polygon.
And you know I'm on a snap to grid because I can it's not only 64 where 60 fall at sea that's great.
It's going to be what 16 by 32 maybe.
Let's find out.
On the x You're only 32.
And on the Y maybe 16.
OK that's pretty good isn't it.
OK.
And the Y has to be it.
And I just accidentally clicked snap relative.
I don't want that.
OK.
Let's put in our reclusion.
You got here here here here and here.
My cat is making noises.
We now have an occlusion polygon.
No lights.
Give me an error versus double check.
One more thing I want to do I want to make it so that you actually see the doors a set to clockwise.
So the occlusion switch off closed and put it to clockwise.
OK.
That should set up everything we need.
All right let's switch off the grid.
So hide guy hide the grid take off snap.
There's our occlusion.
It's looking good.
One more thing I need to do is on the static body let's make sure that we're actually colliding with
the right layer sucked.
You are not a player.
You are to rain and you can interact with players and security cameras and guards.
Why security cameras.
Line of sight is relying on a collision mask.
If we don't put security cameras here security cameras are going to be able to see the player through
the door.
Okay so far so good.
Couple more things.
One set up.
First let's make the actual area.
This is the part where the player has to be in range of in order for clicking on the door to work.
So this is going to be a collision.
Whoops.
Collision shape.
2d.
There it is.
And it's be a simple rectangle shape.
And it's gonna have to be at least as wide as the door.
And quite a lot bigger so let's see that look about right.
Yeah looks good.
Let's see.
I've got this at 32 sounds like a good number and let's call it 42.
Looks good.
Let's save this scene.
You're a door.
Fantastic.
Let's just check.
That's going to look right before we put any functionality in.
Let's put it where we can see what's happening.
So I'm going to instance in a door.
They are.
And let's move you to here and rotate you by 90 degrees.
Transform.
The door.
Let us transform are positions fine rotation.
The reason why this night is okay one doing this one open.
The guards have to be trapped.
I will make sure that we can actually see the door.
So let's take a look.
Okay so a couple more things we need for the door.
We need a way of opening this door so we're going to need an animation player.
And I'm just gonna drag it directly into the door just recipes.
We've also got an audio player because what sound effects a little later.
So let's put that in now.
Audio stream play.
Trudy Let's make this positional So where it is on screen is going to matter.
Looking good so let's give this an animation I call this animation new animation that's going be called
Open.
All right.
It's going to move this Sprite if it moves the Sprite it's going to move all the sprite's children.
It's not as move.
The collision shape here so it's easy to see it's not going to move.
The detection area.
So all that's going to move is this Sprite and all of its children.
So let's put in a brand new location key and let's see how long it's like I say it's going to let us
take a second to open.
It's going to stay open for three seconds and then close over a second so this can be a 4 second clip.
And it's two steps of one second.
It is nice and easy for us Miles.
OK.
So we have a key here and we need one at one second so let's move this spy.
What is that.
That's going to be a 64 is not perfect as big a key there and it can stay there for three seconds and
then is going back to the zero position.
The key here.
Let's see how that works.
Slides open.
Slides closed.
Awesome.
It's not going to auto load and it's not going to repeat.
It's not a looping animation this is just going play once.
Now we could have set this up to rotate but mimic sliding doors just because a little bit simpler.
However if we wanted to rotate what I would do is I would use a position too deep to be the parent of
the Sprite and I would rotate that position to do so would work as a hinge.
The player won't see the position to day but give me an easy thing to animate with everything beneath
it.
That way when I'm rotating the Sprite it won't rotate from the centre.
It'll rotate from the hinge.
However I want a sliding door sliding doors what I've got.
Let's say that I make a script we can put script right up here at the root of door and I will put it
in my script folder and when I call it door.
First thing we're going to need is a boolean.
On the call this can click.
What does this do.
It measures.
Are you in range of the door.
Is the player able to touch you.
And this is just not as false.
If you don't like can click you can use is in player range or player in range or whatever.
I mean to call it can click.
I have mixed feelings about how good that is but I'm using it for now.
We probably need a signal and that signals going to come from this collision shape which is the one
for the door.
Not one for the sprite in.
I should probably rename that some call this player detection area just to make this really clear.
So error.
Oh wait.
Not Eric entered body entered because the player has a body.
The player is not an area suck on body entered.
Connect that I am going to connect it to door on door.
Body entered.
Fantastic.
And let's put in an exit one as well.
Because otherwise the it'll register on a player X enters here in the moment the players come in range
of a door.
They'll be able to magically open that door from anywhere that they can see so they have the power of
opening doors of their mind.
I don't want that I want the player to only ever be able to enter the door.
If they're in this area someone track when they enter and when they exit.
So body exit and won't connect that as well.
What do we want to do.
Well the first thing want to do is say Are you an NPC.
If not a body.
So if you are not the player.
Equals.
Equals global dot player.
If this is not the player and this is important because the only other thing that can enter this area
is going to be an NPC.
Cameras can't enter this area anyway so I don't care about that.
So just if a god has entered this area if you are not the player and the animation is not already running
I don't want the door to slam and open again so and not not pound dollar.
No you are wrong currency animation player.
What is playing.
Well when I do it we're going to run a function called Open which we haven't defined yet so we should
probably do that in a second.
However if you are a player you can allow the player to click on you.
Else can click.
It's going to be set to true.
Let's open very quickly so function open.
And what's going to do it's going go animation player dot play.
This is going to play open animation as well we called it isn't it let's double check that.
Yes we did.
So let's see if you've set this up correctly.
The door the place that guard should now open when the guard comes to it.
And the garment through the door.
OK.
So we now know that it can detect if it's on the plan.
We can now set can click it's true.
Now what I want to do is if the player exits this area set can click to follow so if body equals equals
global dot player.
So if the body that's just left has areas the player can click.
It's false.
But then space them then I see legible.
Okay.
The next thing I need to do is when he says a test if a player is clicking on a door.
Okay so this is going to be a function input event but I'm not going to do input I'm allowed to input
event.
Why.
Because I'm not checking has the player pressed the button.
I'm saying has the player pressed this again.
So if input.
Is mouse bloodland press an assist button.
Or left.
Which should all be in caps and can call.
I don't need to pull can quick.
It is true because if a f can click is the same as if can click is true.
So if that happens open.
Dog got through the door.
Lovely.
Is that all I can click on.
I walk through.
The door closes.
I can't click on it from here.
I get close enough and I can open the door.
We now have locking doors.
Awesome lets tiny this up a little bit.
So I'm gonna make a brand new.
No tuti call it doors and put this door as a child of that and move this door to a bothell WALL So let's
put it just beneath floors.
Alex.
So now when this opens it should slide into the wall as opposed to hovering over it.
There it is.
Outstanding.
OK.
One more thing I'd like to do I want to add some sound effects one sound effect when the door opens
and one when it closes and I can do this in a script I can go into the script audio stream player dot
stream and stream in here.
However timing that's going to be a little annoying.
So instead I'm a set up in the animation player.
First let's get out a script for you x not using script and let's go look at our sound effects and our
sound effects are right here.
I've given you some options.
I've got four different door close sounds and two to four door opens.
I'm sure these door close one door open one.
But feel free to use whichever you want.
And I'm going to create some keys for the audio stream player in animation play.
If we go to the audio stream player today you'll see there's a stream and a stream can be loaded and
I will load in my first sound effect and that's going to be.
Door open door open one of g.g. and then I'm on to create a key for that and I'm going to reset this
key at the two second mark somewhere loading a different sound effect to simply door close one and pull
a key here.
Then I'm going to put in a plane.
So let's go back to the beginning of the animation and tell it you're playing a key that month's this
animation runs it all run playing as a key as well as the street so it knows.
Play this sound.
It's got to stop playing at the one second Mark.
I can tweak that vaniman just put a key there put another key in three seconds.
Put playing key on and switch it off at 4 seconds.
I might have to tweak these because of these sound effects A short of a second they might loop.
Let's find out.
That's pretty good right.
So if there's anything wrong there you can move these around you can change your steps to zero point
five and just drag the player or stop Keys where you need them.
But look I've got door opens.
Door closes and if I wanted to change the times if any of these I could so the door closed much faster.
Great.
One more thing we should do all we hear is we should check that both of our collision masts are right.
Right now I've got the doors Sprite collision mask working great so I've got it on to rain and it's
interacting with players security cameras and guards.
But this detection area should only be interact with the player.
It is not a player it is not part of the touraine.
I don't want it to interact with a train and it can only interact with the player or the guards.
The guards have to be able to enter this area.
So let's see how that works.
I hear a door.
Outstanding.
Okay.
And that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we'll looked at how to use input event to detect mouse clicks as opposed to input which
will just detect has the mouse been pressed.
We looked at changing the door behaviour depending on who uses it and we looked at how to change audio
sources in animation player.
Fantastic work and I'll see you in the next video.